# Collaboration with Git

Patrick McCann

Research Computing, University of St Andrews

---

## Software Carpentry

Much of this presentation will draw on the [Software
Carpentry](https://software-carpentry.org/) lesson [Version Control with
Git](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/).

That lesson goes into topics in more detail, with examples and exercises. There
are regular Software Carpentry workshops at the University, open to all
researchers.

---

## Why use Version Control?

--

<p class="stretch">
  <img src="images/phd101212s.png" alt='PhD Comics comic "FINAL".doc depicting
  PhD student and supervisor repeatedly revising a document and generating ever
  more complicated file names for the different versions.  Copyright Jorge Cham
  2012' title='PhD Comics "FINAL".doc' />
</p>

--

Version control systems record the details of changes made to a base version of
a document or documents.

As well as  allowing you to track changes over time - and to move back and
forward between versions - they allow collaborators to maintain differing
versions and provide mechanisms for resolving those differences.

--

You get to decide what changes get grouped together in a _commit_, marking a
new version.

A project's commit history and metadata make up a _repository_. Repositories
can be kept in sync between different computers.

---

## Why use Git?

<p class="stretch">
  <img src="images/Git-logo.svg" alt='Git logo' title='Git logo' />
</p>

--

Version control systems have been around since the 1980s - you may have heard
of e.g. CVS or Subversion.

Modern systems like [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and Mercurial are
_distributed_, so they don't need a central server to host repositories.

--

Git has become the de facto standard.

---

## Why use GitHub?

<p class="stretch">
  <img src="images/github-logo.png" alt='GitHub logo' title='GitHub logo' />
</p>

--

[GitHub.com](https://github.com) has become the most popular platform for
hosting Git Repositories - especially public repositories for open-source
software.

Others platforms include [BitBucket](https://bitbucket.org/) and
[GitLab.com.](https://gitlab.com/).

--

The University has an instance of [GitLab](https://gitlab.st-andrews.ac.uk/)
(VPN) available to researchers - this is not available to users outside the
University.

--

GitHub also provides some additional features which are particularly useful to
academic researchers.

---

## Git Basics

---

## Initialising

---

## Adding and Commiting

---

## Viewing the Log

---

## Ignoring Things

---

## Remotes - Pushing and Pulling

---

## Git in RStudio

---

## Collaboration

---

## Branching

---

## Forking

---

## Automation

---

## Open Science

---

## Licensing

---

## Citation

---

## Zenodo and Pure
